Rule 1 (Immutable)
==================

All players in the game must obey all rules. A rule is defined as a
textual order or definition written in the Laws and Rules category.
There are three kinds of rules: phase, mutable, and immutable. In the
case of a contradiction, an immutable rule takes precedence over a
mutable rule, and in the case of both being mutable or immutable, the
rule with a lower ID number tales precedence. Phase rules have
precedence over any other rule, and if two phase rules contradict, B
class rules override S and E class rules, and lower digits have
precedence if both are B class.

Rule 2 (Immutable)
==================

Each player is assigned a place in the turn order, with new players
being put at the end of the turn order as they join. Turns rotate down
the turn order, and back to the top once the bottom player has taken
their turn. On a turn, a player may take one action. An action can be
either a proposal of a new law, in which case a law should be posted in
\#current-proposal, a mutable law can be proposed to be changed or
edited, a mutable law can be made immutable, an immutable law can be
made mutable, or another action determined by other laws than this one.
A public vote shall be held, and if a simple majority is reached in
favor of the action, the action is resolved as intended.

Rule 3 (Immutable)
==================

All players may vote at every opportunity, unless they are banned from
the server. Each player may vote once and only once, and each vote is
equal.

Rule 4 (Immutable)
==================

Each law is assigned a number, with each new law being one above the
previous one. A law may also be assigned a nickname. All laws, when
created, are mutable. A law can include multiple clauses, which may be
divided into sections within the law. All clauses should cover the same
topic. When calling an edit to an existing law as an action, the edit
should only relate to the topic of the law.

Rule 5 (Immutable)
==================

In the case of a law being broken, a Grand Trial may be called. In a
Grand Trial, a new category and text channels are created specifically
for the Grand Trial. The Grand Trial is called when a player accuses a
player or law of breaking a law with precedence, and another player
seconds them. The original accuser decides on a suitable punishment,
and all players decide if the punishment should be carried out. A simple
majority is needed in most cases, however, if the punishment is a
permanent banning from this server, two thirds or more is required to
pass the punishment. Players have a period of two turns to vote, and
turns proceed as normal during the Grand Trial.

Rule 6 (Immutable)
==================

Each player has a score called their 'point score', which will be
recorded next to their name in turn order. It can never be negative, and
if an action would  decrease it to negative, it instead decreases it to
0.

Rule 7
======

Every day at 1:00 pm UTC, a new person's turn begins. Each turn lasts
for 120 hours (5 days), meaning there will be at maximum 5 turns
happening at the same time.

A turn is split into two phases: Proposal, and Voting

During the proposal phase, players have 96 hours (4 days) to post their
action in #current-proposal. The voting phase starts immediately after
they post it. If they do not post an action within the proposal phase,
their turn ends without a voting phase, and they get a warning.

The voting phase lasts until the end of the turn. During the voting
phase, players may vote in #voting on whether the proposal should be
adopted into a rule.

Players may cede their turn to another player, allowing that player to
post an action in their stead. 

Rule 8
======

Failing to take an action, or cede your action, on your turn, will
result in a warning. If 3 warnings are called on a single player, a
Grand Trial for removal from the server commences. You may also choose
your cede up to your next 5 actions to a certain player, in advance,
in the case of prolonged absence. (Such as a vacation.)

Rule 9
======

After a player's proposal is submitted and voted on, that player is
awarded with the amount of points (rounded up) which this equation
permits: [votes for/total votes*10]

Rule 10
=======

During the Game Phase, if one or more players passes 300 points at the
end of their turn, then they are considered a winner of that game. Once
at least one winner has been declared, the current round becomes the
Final Round for this Phase of the game. At the end of this round, all
players points are tallied, and any player (other than the first) whose
score exceeds 300 points is also considered a winner. After the Final
Round is over, the Game Phase ends and the End Phase begins.

Rule 11
=======

Your initial rule proposal must be the rule brought to vote. After you
post it, you canâ€™t modify it- no exceptions.

Rule 12
=======

Moderators and admins shall not recieve rewards or benefits in-game for
being an admin or moderator. They must carry out all rules and laws to
the best of their ability, and if the players believe they have not done
this, they may call a grand trial on the "Mod Team", where the
punishment is a method of resolving the problem. Also, \#server-rules
can be edited or added to at any time by mods or admins, however, rules
in it should only exist to help the server. Moderators and admins may
also carry out whatever steps they find necessary to keep peace and
well-being of the server, however, players may call a Grand Trial on a
mod or admin to remove their role, and while at trial, all of their mod
powers are revoked during the time of the trial.

Rule 13
=======

On their turn, a player may choose to spend 10 points from their point
score to shuffle the turn order. This will cause the turn order to be
randomised at the end of the round, however the player who initiated it
will be first in the new turn order. Only one player can do this per
round.

Rule 14
=======

Section 1
---------

Points are the official currency of Now We Nomic. Certain roles are able
to receive points as a salary for their work. Players can 'donate' their
points or 'trade' their points.  They cannot do either of these to put
their point score negative.

A Donation is performed via following these steps:

1. Having permission from the target of the Donation to grant them the
   donation being performed.
2. Choosing a positive integer number, then subtracting that number from
   your point pool and then adding that number to the target's point
   pool. *(Note that all restrictions related to donations still apply,
   eg. you cannot use this to set your points to negative and you need
   to formalize this transaction with the GoE first)*

A Trade is performed via following these steps:

1. Having permission from the sender of the points to perform this
   Trade. This permission shall:
   a. State the amount to be sent.
   b. Have the grant of permission be conditional to the fulfillment of
      a certain requirement which is to be chosen and made explicit by
      this sender.
   c. Only be valid for a single transaction of points. *(You cannot
      claim a single Trade's allotment of points more than once.)*
2. Subtract the amount stated in the permission made by the sender from
   their point balance and then adding that number to your point pool.
   *(Note that all restrictions related to donations still apply, eg.
   you cannot use this to set your points to negative and you need to
   formalize this transaction with the GoE first)*

Section 2
---------

A new role is created called the "Guardian of Estates", or GoE. All
donations and trades must be formalized with them first, and they make
sure the trade or donation is carried out freely. If one player tries to
not carry out their part of the deal, such as a player not performing
the action required by a trade, the GoE may choose to punish those
players by realloting points to those two players to a pre-trade state,
and subtracting up to 1/5th of trade's point value from the offending
party's account. A GoE is chosen by election every round, and cannot
hold more than two consecutive terms. An election lasts 72 hours, and
the player with the most votes at the end of that time wins. A GoE may
be removed from office by Grand Trial. 

Rule 15
=======

Section 1
---------

A player can, at any time, create a ribbon proposal. This proposal shall
specify an emoji, a name, a valid ribbon type, and a list of criteria. A
vote shall be initiated, and after 48 hours, if a majority of votes are
in favor, a new class of ribbon shall be created in #ribbons as well as
a new role corresponding to the ribbon class, named with that class's
name and emoji.

Section 2
---------

Valid ribbon types are self-appointed or nominated. If a player thinks
they have achieved the criteria for a self-appointed ribbon, they shall
state this and create a vote on whether they should receive it. If the
ribbon is nominated, another player must initiate the vote. Either way,
if after 48 hours, The majority of votes are in favor, the player in
question's name will be added under that ribbon class in #ribbons. They
shall also be given the role associated with the ribbon. Players can
receive the same ribbon class twice.

Rule 16
=======

Section 1
---------

Two new channels (#haiku-proposals and #library) will be created.
Players may post haikus to #haiku-proposals in the hopes of having them
ratified and earning them points.

A new elected office will also be created to oversee the
#haiku-proposals and #library channels - The Viceroy of Poetic Affairs
(VoPA). An election will be held as soon as possible to select a
starting VoPA. Any active player may stand for VoPA and once in office
they may hold the term for up to one year without the need to stand for
reelection unless deemed inactive (see section 2). VoPAs may step down
at any point - doing so will trigger a new election.

Section 2
---------

The incumbent VoPA must post a Weekly Topic to the #haiku-proposals
channel by 1pm UTC every Monday. Failure to do so for three consecutive
weeks will trigger an automatic election for a new VoPA. Incumbent VoPAs
may stand for reelection, even if they have already served a full yearâ€™s
term.

Ratified haikus will be posted by the VoPA to the #library channel. The
VoPA may reject a playerâ€™s haiku for any of the following reasons:

A. Failure to conform to standard three line 5-7-5 syllable format.
B. Insufficient relevancy to weekly haiku topic.
C. Written primarily in a language other than English.

Players may call a Grand Trial against the VoPA if they believe their
haiku has been wrongly rejected.

Players will be awarded 2 points per ratified haiku. Players may post up
to three haikus per topic.

Rule 17
=======

Section 1: Creation of the Nomic Commission of Commerce (NCC)
-------------------------------------------------------------

NCC is comprised of 5 players. The initial commission will be selected
by the last player to propose a rule in turn order (following the
passing of this rule) filling seats 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Every round or two
weeks from last change, whichever is shorter, players in seats 1 and 2
are removed from the commission. Players in seats 3, 4, and 5 move up
sequentially to fill the empty seats. The last player to propose a rule
will select new members of the commission for seats 4 and 5. Player
selection is limited to any player who did not cede their previous turn.
The current player selecting may not select themselves. Players removed
from seats 1 and 2 during this change, as well as the GoE (should it
exist) are not eligible for selection.

Section 2: Jurisdiction of the Nomic Commission of Commerce
-----------------------------------------------------------

The NCC will vote on all proposals seeking to utilize the current
currency of Now We Nomic (or the current name of the server). All votes
require a simple majority. Should there be a tie, the following will be
used as tiebreaker: current GoE, then the last player to propose. This
order of succession will conclude as soon as a tie is broken. Any
proposal brought before the NCC, owned by a sitting member of the NCC,
requires that member to recuse themselves from the vote. Transactions,
such as the sale of goods and services is classified under trade.
Actions listed under Rule 2 such as a proposal of a new rule are not
subject to NCC rulings. Items are as follows:

A. Loans: Separate from a donation or trade, this is specifically the
   giving of currency with the expectation of the initial amount plus
   interest to be repaid some period of time later. This formal contract
   will be voted on by the NCC and enforced by the GoE (or current title
   of position in Rule 14, Section 2).  If an enforcer is not present,
   Seat 1 of the NCC will serve in this capacity.

B. Corporations: Corporations are institutes which can be built by
   players using the current currency. The formation of a corporation
   will be voted on by the NCC based on the Proposal of Business (PoB)
   submitted to the commission. The PoB must include: Cost to found
   Corporation, List of Player Owners (equity holders), Breakdown of
   Profit Sharing, representative(s) to act on behalf of the
   corporation, and Goods and Services provided by corporation.
   Corporations are not players. Points under the ownership of a
   corporation may only be used to pay equity holders of the
   corporation, to produce a good listed in the PoB, or to provide a
   service listed under the PoB.

C. Goods and Services: A good is any property created by an entity
   (player, corporation, etc...). A service is any act done by an
   entity with the expectation of payment in the form of currency. All
   goods and services must be approved by the NCC before they may be
   created, manufactured, or otherwise acted upon. Each good and service
   must have a formal price, cost of production, and benefit to consumer
   listed. Each of these are subject to change at any time, but the
   change must be brought before the NCC before being finalized.
   Benefits can be classified under two categories: static and
   activated. Static benefits happen naturally on their own with no
   additional input from the user, usually over a set time frame such as
   a round. Activated benefits should require some cost to use, i.e.
   spend points, but provide the user a benefit in the end. Activated
   items can be used during any turn. A formal list of all approved
   goods and services will be kept by the NCC. Should anything need to
   be removed from the list, a special vote can be called on by Seat 1
   of the current NCC. The creator of a good or service will have
   exclusive rights to their product for the duration of the round which
   it is first created. Following this time period, other entities may
   provide a similar good. Should a violation be perceived, this matter
   will be handled by the NCC. Appeals will then be heard by calling a
   grand trial.

Section 3: Payment and Anti-Corruption
--------------------------------------

Each member of the NCC will receive 15 units of the official currency
at the end of each round. This occurs before removal from seats. NCC
members are prohibited from accepting bribes in the form of donations or
payment for the exchange of approval for one of the items listed above.
A grand trial should be immediately called if any bribery is suspected.
Violation, or the attempt there of, is punishable by fine or, in some
cases, a ban from Now We Nomic (or current name of server).

Section 4: Record Keeping
-------------------------

Each Player shall have a list of owned items stored on a channel,
#playeritems. The list of approved goods and services will be listed
under a channel, #Marketplace. All properties listed above will be
listed (price, distributor, benefits/uses, etc.). Item usage should
have its own channel as well to monitor the actions of players. The NCC
will need its own channel for proposals, and each member of the NCC will
be listed in their respective seat in said channel. Should any other
channel be deemed necessary, it will be created with the approval of the
Mod team.
