0--------1---------2---------3---------4---------5---------6---------7---------8---------9---------
123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789

# Rule 1 (Immutable)

All players in the game must obey all rules. A rule is defined as a
textual order or definition written in the Laws and Rules category.
There are three kinds of rules: phase, mutable, and immutable. In the
case of a contradiction, an immutable rule takes precedence over a
mutable rule, and in the case of both being mutable or immutable, the
rule with a lower ID number tales precedence. Phase rules have
precedence over any other rule, and if two phase rules contradict, B
class rules override S and E class rules, and lower digits have
precedence if both are B class.

# Rule 2 (Immutable)

Each player is assigned a place in the turn order, with new players
being put at the end of the turn order as they join. Turns rotate down
the turn order, and back to the top once the bottom player has taken
their turn. On a turn, a player may take one action. An action can be
either a proposal of a new law, in which case a law should be posted in
\#current-proposal, a mutable law can be proposed to be changed or
edited, a mutable law can be made immutable, an immutable law can be
made mutable, or another action determined by other laws than this one.
A public vote shall be held, and if a simple majority is reached in
favor of the action, the action is resolved as intended.

# Rule 3 (Immutable)

All players may vote at every opportunity, unless they are banned from
the server. Each player may vote once and only once, and each vote is
equal.

# Rule 4 (Immutable)

Each law is assigned a number, with each new law being one above the
previous one. A law may also be assigned a nickname. All laws, when
created, are mutable. A law can include multiple clauses, which may be
divided into sections within the law. All clauses should cover the same
topic. When calling an edit to an existing law as an action, the edit
should only relate to the topic of the law.

# Rule 5 (Immutable)

In the case of a law being broken, a Grand Trial may be called. In a
Grand Trial, a new category and text channels are created specifically
for the Grand Trial. The Grand Trial is called when a player accuses a
player or law of breaking a law with precedence, and another player
seconds them. The original accuser decides on a suitable punishment,
and all players decide if the punishment should be carried out. A simple
majority is needed in most cases, however, if the punishment is a
permanent banning from this server, two thirds or more is required to
pass the punishment. Players have a period of two turns to vote, and
turns proceed as normal during the Grand Trial.

# Rule 6 (Immutable)

Each player has a score called their 'point score', which will be
recorded next to their name in turn order. It can never be negative, and
if an action would  decrease it to negative, it instead decreases it to
0.

# Rule 7

A player's turn lasts 48 hours, and this timer begins at 1 'o clock pm
UTC. If a turn finishes early by reaching a majority vote, the next turn
begins at 1 o clock pm UTC the next day. If the 48 hours is reached and
no majority of players is reached, the majority of votes cast is done,
instead of majority of players, and the next turn begins. Players may
cede their turn to another player, allowing that player to make a
proposal in their stead.

# Rule 8

Failing to take an action, or cede your action, on your turn, will
result in a warning. If 3 warnings are called on a single player, a
Grand Trial for removal from the server commences. You may also choose
your cede up to your next 5 actions to a certain player, in advance,
in the case of prolonged absence. (Such as a vacation.)

# Rule 9

After a player's proposal is passed, a random number from 1 to 10 is
generated. That player gets that many points added to their point score.